Adding Runbooks Publishing section (#576)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/deployment-process/operations-runbooks/index.md

position: 140
---

> Runbooks were introduced in **Octopus 2019.10**.

Reviewer: 2019.11?

Author: Runbooks were introduced in 2019.10 behind this feature flag. 2019.11 is just where we are lifting the feature flag and tightening a few things.

Reviewer: But if you want docs to help drive a version a customer will pick to use a feature, should it not be when the feature ships completely, not in EAP?

Author: I'll update this sentence to reflect when we lifted the feature flag (2019.11) so it's clear

Reviewer: 👍

## Environments Selection

We don't believe that channels or lifecycles (progression) make sense for runbooks. Runbooks can be run on any environments you have access to. The interface has been designed to let you run a runbook quickly, so there's a single `Run...` screen where you choose environments and specify any `Advanced` options, and then you run it.

## Permissions and Roles

> Permissions are available to help you manage access to Runbooks, these include `RunbookView` (for viewing), `RunbookEdit` (for creating, editing, deleting and snapshotting), and various `RunbookRun*` permissions.

Reviewer: > and various `RunbookRun*` 
maybe just list the 3?

could mention it follows the pattern fo the Deployment permissions

## Environments Selection

We don't believe that channels or lifecycles (progression) make sense for runbooks. Runbooks can be run on any environments you have access to. The interface has been designed to let you run a runbook quickly, so there's a single `Run...` screen where you choose environments and specify any `Advanced` options, and then you run it.

## Permissions

Two permissions are available for the top-level Runbooks document: `RunbookView` (for viewing) and `RunbookEdit` (for creating, modifying, and deleting), so if you want to lock down the ability for your teams to create runbooks, you just need to disable these permissions.

Once you create a runbook snapshot and run it, the typical `Deployment` and `Release` permissions are required.

## Publishing

> Publishing allows a runbook author (users with `RunbookEdit` permissions) to nominate a Runbook Snapshot as being 'ready to run', informing others that the runbook process (at the given snapshot) has been tried and tested.

Reviewer 2: Is it worth say "tried and tested and is an approved version of the runbook." just to really drive it home :)

> For consumers (users running a runbook), the option to run a published snapshot will be available on the Run screen. Users who do not have `RunbookEdit` permissions will have the published version selected by default, giving them some level of confidence that they will be running the expected snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For consumers (users running a runbook), the option to run a published snapshot will be available on the Run screen. Users who do not have `RunbookEdit` permissions can access the published version by default, giving them some level of confidence that they will be running the expected snapshot.
```

- Variable scoping to runbooks (there's no way to scope variables between your project's deployment process vs runbook processes).

> - Triggers.

Reviewer 2: Will triggers need to be removed from this list?

Reviewer 2: It is removed by #586 so never mind :)
